# Novel-Machine-Learning-and-Neural-Network-Models-for-Human-Activity-Recognition
Human activity recognition (HAR) has been widely deployed in many real-life applications, such as virtual reality interaction, rehabilitation systems, and mobile health monitoring. HAR can be roughly divided into video-based HAR which utilizes a video camera to record activity and sensor-based HAR which uses inertial, magnetic or electrocardiogram sensor signals for activity classification and recognition. Two main challenges existing in sensor-based HAR include recognition of new activity with limited training data as well as fast and accurate models for robust recognition. With the goal of tackling the challenges, this study proposes a new attribute-based Machine Learning architecture for recognizing new human activity using limited data with good accuracy (83%~93%), and a fast and accurate hybrid Neural Network (CNN-LSTM) model (99.36% accuracy and 7s computation time) for HAR. Finally this report summarizes the advantages as well as limitations of the current design and discusses the future directions.

This project utilizes the MHEALTH dataset from UCI Machine Learning Repository. The dataset contains 23 types of inertial, magnetic and electrocardiogram sensor signals recorded from 10 subjects performing 12 different activities. The number of features available in the project are 21 types of inertial and magnetic sensor signals, since the electrocardiogram signals are disregarded in this project for HAR to reduce the complexity of modeling, as well as the labels (1 to 12) encoded for 12 various activities. 
